.\" Copyright (c) 2006 Tamas Tevesz <ice@extreme.hu>
.\"
.\" Permission to use, copy, modify, and distribute this software for any
.\" purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided that the above
.\" copyright notice and this permission notice appear in all copies.
.\"
.\" THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES
.\" WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
.\" MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR
.\" ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES
.\" WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN
.\" ACTION OF CONTRACT, NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF
.\" OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
.Dd April 12, 2006
.Dt FLAMEROBIN 1
.ds volume Firebird Administration Tool
.Os "FlameRobin 0.7"
.Sh NAME
.Nm flamerobin
.Nd management and data manipulation tool for the Firebird DBMS
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm flamerobin
.\" with thanks to jmc
.Oo Xo Fl h Ar directory \*(Ba
.Fl -home Ns = Ns Ar directory Oc Xc
.Oo Xo Fl uh Ar directory \*(Ba
.Fl -user-home Ns = Ns Ar directory Oc Xc
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a graphical frontend to the Firebird DBMS.
It is small and simple, yet offers all the basic features needed to create
and manipulate databases, execute queries and perform administrative tasks.
.Pp
This manual page only documents the run-time options and environment of
.Nm .
Information about using the GUI may be obtained by selecting the Help -\*(Gt
Manual menu item once the application is running.
.Pp
.Nm
uses two directory hierarchies for its normal operation.
The
.Em data directory
contains the templates for property pages, the default configuration and the
on-line documentation grouped into three sub-directories as follows:
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxx -compact
.Pp
.It Pa conf-defs
default configuration
.It Pa docs
on-line documentation
.It Pa html-templates
templates for property pages
.El
.Pp
The
.Em user home directory
contains the per-user configuration, comprising three entries:
.Pp
.Bl -tag -width xxxxxxxxxxxxxxxxx -compact
.It Pa fr_databases.conf
this file stores the user's registered databases.
.It Pa fr_settings.conf
this file stores the user's preferences related to the
.Nm
GUI.
.It Pa history
this directory holds the SQL statement history, one item per file.
.El
.Pp
.Nm
accepts several options, which are described as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds -compact
.Pp
.It Fl h Ar directory
.It Fl -home Ns = Ns Ar directory
Use
.Ar directory
as the
.Em data directory
(but see
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
below).
.Pp
.It Fl uh Ar directory
.It Fl -user-home Ns = Ns Ar directory
Use
.Ar directory
as the
.Em user home directory
(but see
.Sx ENVIRONMENT
and
.Sx CAVEATS
below).
.El
.Sh ENVIRONMENT
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Ev FR_HOME
Specifies an alternate location for the
.Nm
.Em data directory .
.Pp
If both
.Fl h
(or
.Fl -home )
and this environment variable are set, the command line argument takes precedence.
.It Ev FR_USER_HOME
Specifies an alternate location for the
.Nm
.Em user home directory .
.Pp
If both
.Fl uh
(or
.Fl -user-home )
and this environment variable are set, the command line argument takes precedence.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Pa /usr/share/flamerobin
The default
.Nm
.Em data directory .
.It Pa ~/.flamerobin
The default
.Nm
.Em user home directory .
.El
.Sh AUTHORS
.Nm
was written by
.An The FlameRobin Development Team
.Aq Pa http://www.flamerobin.org/ .
.Sh CAVEATS
.Nm
only writes files under the
.Em user home directory .
If
.Nm
is configured so that this directory and the files contained therein are
shared among several users or concurrent instances of
.Nm ,
no precaution is taken to avoid overwriting settings created by other users
or other application instances.
.Sh NOTES
The specification of the
.Em data directory
and the
.Em user home directory
(regardless of whether they occur in the environment or on the command line)
may be the literal string
.Dq $app
which translates to a common data folder determined at compilation time, or
.Dq $user
which translates to the user local data directory. These options currently have
effect only on Windows platform.
